The next thing we wanna talk
about is JSON Web Tokens.
So for JSON Web Tokens, that's gonna be
our preferred strategy of authentication.
Cuz it's just easy to deal with,
especially with service environments where
you don't typically have a long running
task, where you can keep
track of state on a session.
So we'll just use JSON Web Tokens and
put them in a cookie.
And the reason we're gonna put them
in a cookie, is so that we can access
them pretty much anywhere on our network
layer, whether that's on the server,
whether that's in middleware,
on the edge, and things like that.
So kinda getting the best
of both worlds there.
So we need to make some utility
functions to create some
JSON Web Tokens, and
to verify some JSON Web Tokens,
and then to grab a JSON Web Token
from a cookie and
turn that back into
whatever the payload was.
If you don't know what a JSON Web Token
is, without getting into
all the details of it,
you can think of it as taking a object,
some payload, and
converting it to some globally standard
string that you can use
that's gonna be unique.
And when you get that string on your
server, you can undo that operation and
get back that object.
So it's basically a stateless
way to do authentication.
You just have to send that JSON Web Token
to any protected resource every time
you wanna access it, so the server
can verify that JSON Web Token to
determine if you have access, if you're
allowed, who you are, things like that.
Versus a session where you don't really
need to do anything cuz the server's
keeping track of you.
In this case,
the server won't keep track of our users,
the users are responsible for sending
a JSON Web Token on every single request.
But because it's gonna be in a cookie,
it's gonna be sent on every request
automatically, by default, so
we don't have to look it up.
So that's what we're doing there.
All right, so let's do that.
So in the same file, which was auth,
we're going to import a few things here
at the top, From this package called Jose.
So one is called, what is it?
JWTValidate, [INAUDIBLE].
We're gonna do Sign.JWT and
we're gonna do jwtVerify.
So let's get those in here.
SignJWT and jwtVerify.
Then we'll make two functions.
The first one is gonna be,
createJWT, takes in a user object,
and it just creates a JSON Web Token.
So we'll do that, export const createJWT,
takes in the user, And it does this.
So I'm gonna walk through this to
explain kinda what's going on.
Also noted in production, I probably
wouldn't set up my own authentication.
Not because I don't want to,
I just think it's so hard to get it right.
And I also would rather just work
on the application code, and
not have to reinvent
authentication every single time.
Once you get authentication done, and
it works, you should probably use it that
way for most of the apps going forward.
So there's tons of services out there,
and things like that.
But for this course,
I want to limit how many dependencies we
use to make sure that this course is
somewhat kind of last in the future.
I don't wanna bring in some app and
then, a month later,
the app shuts down, and
then the authentication broke.
So we're writing
authentication from scratch.
But in production, if you don't have
a team dedicated to authentication at your
company, you should probably do
authentication with a service, or
some open source package that
does most of it for you,
versus creating it from scratch yourself.
But this is how you would do it, yes.
>> Just a shout out to Maximiliano Firtman
just launched a Full Stack
authentication course on Frontend Masters
that kinda gets into federated log,
federated authentication, WebAuthn,
pass keys, and a lot of those options.
>> Beautiful, I might take that
course that sounds amazing.
[LAUGH] There's so
much to learn in authentication.
It seems simple on the surface,
and then the more you dig,
you're like, wait, hold on.
And it just goes like onions,
there's layers to it, it never stops.
And then you get to the center,
there's another onion.
[LAUGH] And it just doesn't stop.
But yeah, yeah.
>> And one more question, do you
have any services that you've worked
with that you recommend,
or like, for doing auth?
>> Yeah, there's so many, but I'm only
gonna recommend the ones that I've used,
because I don't like
recommending things I don't use.
The one I've been using
lately has been called Clerk.
This was actually really cool,
kinda reminds me of Auth0 back in the day,
when Auth0 was really dope.
And now it's kind of just like,
they don't care about you
unless you're a huge company.
This is actually super easy,
I've been liking that one.
There's another one that's really cool,
called SuperTokens.
It's a little different to use, but once
you get it set up, it's also really cool.
So check those out.
And then if you want something
a little more low level,
where it's like you still kind of
manage the authentication, and
it's not some service you pay for,
NextAuth.
I believe I've talked about this
one in a V1 version of this course.
So you can check out NextAuth.
It's kinda like,
if you ever use Express and Passport,
it's kind of like Passport for
Next.js, basically.
It's a little complicated to set up.
It's mostly useful when you wanna do
things like Social Auth, OAuth, and
stuff like that.
It makes it very easy to set that up.
If you're just only doing email and
password,
it's kind of overkill to really have.
So I would say those three, cuz these are
the only three that I've used lately, but
there's definitely more out there.
In fact, if you go to the Next.js docs,
They have a section here just for auth.
And they have a list of providers
down here that you can check out,
with examples.
Each one of these links to an example app,
for instance, Magic.
Magic is a good one,
I just haven't tried it in a while.
But you can look at the example
code of how they use it.
And for the most part,
it should work the same as far as
how you make the authentication.
Because I know these example apps
will be in version 12 Next.js, but
how you do the authentication
probably work the same.
The only thing that's probably different
is how you validate the authentication.
That would probably be different.
But, yeah, take a look at that
list of resources, if you want,
see what's going on there.
Any other questions?
No, okay, all righty, so createJWT.
Like I said, it takes a user object, and
then we're just going to create
an expiration date here.
That's the thing about JSON Web Tokens,
they have to expire.
Or you should make them expire,
otherwise, that's a security threat.
So this is just an expiration date that's
basically expiring a week from today.
That's basically what this is saying.
And then we're gonna sign it.
So to sign a JSON Web Token is to do this,
right?
So take an object, so in this case,
the user payload that has
the user's ID and the email.
You can put whatever you want on here.
I decided to put the ID and the email,
because those are two unique fields
that identify your user easily.
So when I verify this JSON Web Token and
I get the payload back,
I wanna be able to quickly
determine who this user is.
So email and ID make sense for me,
because I'm probably gonna do some unique
database query after that, on the ID or
the email, to determine some things.
If your app had RBAC, which stands for
role-based access control,
where users can have different roles and
different permissions for
different things, you might wanna put
that in a JSON Web Token, as well.
So you can quickly check if a user has
the right permission to make this query,
to hit this API, to do things like that.
So put whatever is useful in this payload,
but keep it minimal,
because the string gets bigger and
stuff like that.
So, yeah, payload, crypto stuff,
the algorithm that you're
gonna use to sign this.
There's many different algorithms.
You don't need to concern
yourself with this, at all.
This is why I say,
look into other authentication stuff, or
become some authentication
expert with that course.
But, yeah, this is just an algorithm
that's going to use expiration.
When it was issued and not before.
And then the last thing
is to actually sign it.
So, I have to use this
thing called a TextEncoder,
which basically just
turns this to a buffer.
And then,
we have to sign it with a secret.
The reason you have to sign
a JSON Web Token with a secret is because
anybody could sign a JSON Web Token, and
we wanna make sure it's coming from our
server and not someone else's server.
So the secret is just to make,
cuz you could take a JSON Web Token from
some other app, send it to this app.
And I could just verify it, I'm like,
yeah, you have a JSON Web Token, cool.
And it'll verify, and maybe I'll do
a check after that to determine,
you're not allowed here.
But I don't even want you to be verified,
in the first place, so,
a secret helps with that.
Cool, any questions on that?
No, all right, and for the next one
is to validate a JSON Web Token.
This one's a lot more simpler.
The way this works is, it takes in the
JSON Web Token, which, again, is gonna be
a string, because the result of signing
a JSON Web Token is sending back a string.
We're gonna take that string,
and then we're gonna verify it.
So we passed a string in here,
and the same secret
we used to sign it,
we have to use to verify it.
And then once we do that,
we can get back to payload.
And in this case, for
me it's payload.payload.
Because it's called
payload from this library,
but I also put a key called payload.
So it's payload.payload.
It happens sometimes.
I was thinking about changing it and
I was like, no,
I kinda want that to say payload.
I really do, I don't know.
So, I guess, I could have called
this user, but, whatever.
So once you have all that, you also,
have you noticed we have a new environment
variable here, process.env.JWT_SECRET?
So you need to go into your env,
and you need to make that.
So let's do it.
You could just copy it, JWT_SECRET.
And it can be anything,
just put any string you want.
It literally doesn't matter,
just don't add any spaces.
Actually I think spaces work,
too, but I just don't use them.
I can't verify that.
But you can put whatever you want.
I'll just put JWT_SECRET=shhh_my_precious.
All right, cuz this is just local, you'll
probably change it in production, or
you should change it in production.
You should use something to generate
this for you, versus writing it in.
Cool, and whenever you change
environment variable in Next.js,
if you want it to pick up the environment
variable, you have to restart the server.
It's not gonna pick it up live, so,
you have to restart the server
eventually to get this to run.
Cool, any questions on that?
All right, and you guys understand
why we gotta put that JWT in
an environment variable and
not just hard-code it, right?
Cuz if someone had access to that secret,
then now they can have their server
issue out JSON Web Tokens that
could be used to access our server.
So it has to be secret, yes.
>> Does the length and
complexity of the secret affect how
secure the password is, or the token is?
>> I have no idea.
Yeah, it might.
I think it really depends on
the algorithm and things like that.
But, yeah, that's some low level
cryptography that I do not know about.
It could, I do know the payload affects
the length of the JSON Web Token.
So bigger the payload,
the bigger the the JSON Web Token.
Cool, yes.
>> I see that Scott is
doing a type assertion for
payload.payload to turn
it into the type any.
Will that generally be some kind of
object, or can it really be anything?
>> It's gonna be whatever you put here,
on Sign.
Typically it's an object, but, yeah,
it literally can be whatever you put here.
In this case, for me, it's an object
that has an ID and an email.
And I just put any because TypeScript was
screaming at me and I didn't like it.
So I just ended it.
But realistically, what you would do is
you would, probably, make some interface,
or something, and share it here,
and then also share it here.
I think with Prisma,
because this is gonna be a user object,
we actually have the Prisma types
given to us, so we can use that.
I'm pretty sure we could say
something like this, User, and
let's see if it's from Prisma somewhere.
I know it's in here.
Or actually if I type Project,
I might find it.
Maybe not, Prisma does allow you to
get the types that it generates for
your schema and
you can use them in your application.
I think we have an example here somewhere
where we're actually gonna do that, and
it'll get pretty involved.
So you could do that, but yeah,
this is just me coercing TypeScript
to stop screaming at me.
Cool, any other questions?
All right,
almost done with these utility functions.
So one of the last ones we need to do is
get the JSON Web Token from the cookies,
and then from there, validate that
JSON Web Token, and then from there
check to see if the ID from that JSON Web
Token is indeed a user in our database.
Because, maybe, this is a JSON Web Token
from us, maybe it does have an ID.
But, maybe, since when we issued the ID
until when you try to use our application,
you deleted your account.
So this extra check of like,
I'm gonna take this ID and
check to see if this user
is actually in a database,
is just verifying that there's a user
in a database with this ID, and
that they didn't leave, or they don't
no longer exist, or anything like that.
So it's just an extra step of guarantees.
So let's do that.
We'll say, exports const,
these are from cookie.
And this property right here,
this cookie argument that it's taking, or
cookies, it's gonna come from Next.js has
a cookies library that we're gonna use,
that's gonna allow us to
get access to the cookies.
So that's why I'm passing it in here,
versus just importing
the cookies library myself.
I'll talk about that error,
why I didn't do that, in a minute.
But it has something to do with,
I think I said this earlier,
Next.js being confused about API functions
being client components at this time.
It thinks API functions
are client components.
And whenever I try to import some
server only code in here, and
then this file ends up getting imported
into a API function, it breaks.
Because that code, that package,
in case the cookies package,
was only meant for server components and
not client components,
which it thinks the API
handlers are at this time.
So you had to do this whole workaround,
passing the cookies in.
All right, so we got that.
And then what we need to do is just get
the cookies using this new environment
variable.
So we're gonna do that.
So we're gonna say, jwt = cookies.get, and
we're gonna say process,
or is it targeted?
Yes, process.env, and
we're gonna use COOKIE_NAME.
And that means you need to go make a new
environment variable in your env file, so
we're gonna go do that.
And just like the secret, I mean, you can
kind of just call it whatever you want.
I'm just gonna call it project_app_,
whatever.
In production, I don't know how
teams come up with cookie names, but
somebody has to kinda come up with one,
I don't know.
So you got that environment variable.
And then from there, we just need to call
our validate function, which is async.
So we wanna validate that.
So we'll say,  = await jwtVerify.
Let me make this an async function.
Then we can pass in jwt.
I'm sorry validate, not that one.
There we go.
So now we have our id.
We're validating it in jwt,
given this jwt string.
And then from there, like I said,
the last thing we wanna do is just query
the database to find a user
with that id and return it.
So let's do that.
So first we need to bring in our db
helper, that we created right here.
Which, if you remember, is just Prisma,
just a cache instance of Prisma.
So now we can say user = await
db.user.findUnique, where id is id.
And we're just gonna return user.